---
title: xXram2dieXx (Lore)
---

**xXram2dieXx**, also formerly known as **0nullvoid0**, was the leader
of [xXram2dieXx's Clan](Lore#xXram2dieXx's_Clan "wikilink").

## Appearance

xXram2dieXx's exact appearance as a player is unknown, but his
[xXram2dieXx](XXram2dieXX "wikilink") entity skin suggests he most
likely used default Steve skin.

## Personality

According to the signs left in [clan_build](Clan_Build "wikilink") and
in his diary, xXram2dieXx follows the rules of capitalisation and
punctuation, starting his sentences with a capital letter and ending
them with punctuation marks.

He appears to be ambitious or with a strong sense of duty to his clan,
as evidenced by the quote:

`Time to build a base for all of us, the clan must grow.`

## Fate

At some unknown point in time, he, DyeXD412, and WHYER4 started playing
together on the server and formed a clan. They built their first base as
it is seen in [WORLD2](WORLD2 "wikilink").

On 02.02.2018 he started a diary where he wrote that after returning
from a two-day break, he noticed that a strange, previously unseen
structure had appeared in the enchantment room. He did not know who put
it there, and he only assumed that it was an admin trolling them.

On 03.02.2018 he wrote in his diary that the structure made a weird
sound, and that his game started to lag a bit. He also jokingly noted
that every mob that gets too close to the structure despawns,
attributing it to plugins.

On 04.02.2018 he wrote that it was time to build a base for all of them,
because the clan must grow. It is believed that the base he wrote about
eventually became [clan_build](Clan_Build "wikilink").

On 04.10.2018 he changed his nickname from 0nullvoid0 to xXram2dieXx,
which he apparently did not tell anyone about beforehand, as he had to
clarify it.

On 04.11.2018, after soemone requested more oak wood, he agreed to go
get some, and while he was at it, he was ambushed and killed by [The
Broken End](The_Broken_End "wikilink"). All of this was somehow recorded
on [Record 15](Items#Record_15 "wikilink").

After his death at the hands of The Broken End, his soul was somehow
split into several parts, each of which seems to have subsequently
become a separate entity. There are currently two known parts of his
soul:

  - [Null](Null "wikilink"), a part of his soul that was able to somehow
    retain his original consciousness and memories, thus being
    classified as a [Soul](Entities#Souls "wikilink") entity.
  - [xXram2dieXx](XXram2dieXX "wikilink"), a part of his soul that
    exhibits only unconscious, mild anomalous properties and is directly
    tied to the [Hello](Items#Hello "wikilink") block, thus being
    classified as an [Anomaly](Entities#Anomalies "wikilink") entity.

[Category:Lore](Category:Lore "wikilink")