---
title: The Moon
---

As of 1.9, the moon phases have been implemented as a world event, not a
retexture. The moon functions on a "days passed" system, where after a
(currently unknown) condition is met, it will start to cycle through 8
phases. Each phase can be attributed to one of 7 in-game days passing.

Any event that resets the time, such as changing the time to night or
day, will reset the day counter and subsequently the moon phase. The
full cycle takes 7 in game days, but upon surviving the 7th night, the
8th day will return to the start of the cycle and it will keep repeating
until the counter is reset.

In the 1.8 version of the mod, [The Broken
End](The_Broken_End "wikilink") was a common spawn during the 8th phase.
However, as of 1.9, it is unconfirmed whether this behaviour is the
same.

## Moon phases

### Phase 1- Day 0

The moon seems to have a spot of corruption on it, almost like something
has latched on to it or is spreading from the inside.

Aside from visual changes, this phase has little effect on game
mechanics. Players will be able to sleep as normal, and no significant
increase in entity spawns has been observed.

### Phase 2- Day 1

The moon appears to be glitching or partially broken, with the black
corruption from the previous phase overtaking more area and starting to
grow into small tendrils.

Aside from visual changes, this phase has little effect on game
mechanics. Players will be able to sleep as normal, and no significant
increase in entity spawns has been observed.

### Phase 3- Day 2

The moon appears to be entirely broken, with the corrupted mass starting
to spread further and grow larger. When zoomed in, it is possible to see
a small, dim red speck near the centre of the mass.

While players can still sleep as normal, a slight increase in random
events, structure spawns, and entity spawns has been observed.

### Phase 4- Day 3

The moon is completely gone, replaced by a web of black tendrils in the
sky.

While players can still sleep as normal, a slight increase in random
events, structure spawns, and entity spawns has been observed. Some
players have reported seeing [Faraway](Faraway "wikilink") more
frequently- starting at this phase and continuing for the rest of the
cycle.

### Phase 5- Day 4

While mostly resembling the night before, the mass has expanded
slightly- with a couple more thick tendrils and a larger centre, within
which a bright red dot is present, accompanied by another dim speck on
its left.

While players can still sleep as normal, a moderate increase in random
events, structure spawns, and entity spawns has been observed.

### Phase 6- Day 5

There is nothing in the sky except the stars.

While players can still sleep as normal, a moderate increase in random
events, structure spawns, and entity spawns has been observed.

### Phase 7- Day 6

The mass is back, with smaller gaps between the tendrils and now
sporting a multitude of small red "eyes", looking almost like something
infested.

Players will no longer be able to sleep, with any attempts resulting in
an err.themoon popup. err.soul is also common during this phase, as
[r2](r2 "wikilink") has been observed to spawn frequently alongside [sub
Anomaly 1](sub_Anomaly_1 "wikilink") and [Faraway](Faraway "wikilink").

### Phase 8- Day 7

The tendrils seem to have agglomerated into one large mass with 4
distinct eyes, bearing a striking resemblance to the eyes of
[Integrity](Integrity "wikilink") and [The Broken
End](The_Broken_End "wikilink") in their enraged states.

Players will no longer be able to sleep, with any attempts resulting in
an err.themoon popup. err.soul is also common during this phase, as
[r2](r2 "wikilink") has been observed to spawn frequently alongside [sub
Anomaly 1](sub_Anomaly_1 "wikilink") and [Faraway](Faraway "wikilink").
Rarer entities, such as [Circuit](Circuit "wikilink")'s deceiver form,
have also been observed to spawn more consistently during this phase.

### Gallery

[File:moon_1.png|The](File:moon_1.png%7CThe) moon's first phase.
[File:moon_2.png|The](File:moon_2.png%7CThe) moon's second phase.
[File:moon_3.png|The](File:moon_3.png%7CThe) moon's third phase.
[File:moon_4.png|The](File:moon_4.png%7CThe) moon's fourth phase.
[File:moon_5.png|The](File:moon_5.png%7CThe) moon's fifth phase.
[File:moon_6.png|The](File:moon_6.png%7CThe) moon's sixth phase.
[File:moon_7.png|The](File:moon_7.png%7CThe) moon's seventh phase.
[File:moon_8.png|The](File:moon_8.png%7CThe) moon's eighth phase.
[File:moon_phases_full.png|All](File:moon_phases_full.png%7CAll) of
1.9's moon phases.
[File:unused_moon_phases.png|Another](File:unused_moon_phases.png%7CAnother)
set of moon phases, seemingly unused.
[File:old_moon_phases.png|The](File:old_moon_phases.png%7CThe) old
moon phase textures from 1.8.

[Category:Mechanics](Category:Mechanics "wikilink")